# Run Menu

<!--context:run-->

The Run menu allows you to get maximum efficiency and accuracy from your files and projects through analyzing and testing your code using the Debugging and Run functions.

Running a file or application will display the output in the Browser and Debug Output views, as well as displaying any error or warning messages in the console view.

Debugging a file or application allows you to view the output and any error notices, as well as information about various elements, at various stages while the file is run. For more information on Debugging, see [Debugging Files and Applications](../../024-tasks/152-debugging/000-index.md).

The options available from the Run menu are:

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th>

<th>Shortcut</th>

<th>Description</th></tr>

<tr><td>Run</td>

<td>Ctrl+F11</td>

<td>Launches the last launched Run configuration.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Debug</td>

<td>F11</td>

<td>Launches the last Debug session run.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Run History</td>

<td></td>

<td>Displays and allows access to a list of previously launched Run configurations.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Run As</td>

<td></td>

<td>Lets you choose from running: on the server, as a PHP Script, or as a PHP Web Page.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Open Run Dialog...</td>

<td></td>

<td>Launches the Run dialog for creating / editing Run configurations.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Debug History</td>

<td></td>

<td>Displays a list of Debug configurations so that they can be used for debugging.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Debug As</td>

<td></td>

<td>Lets you choose from debugging: on the server, as a PHP Script, or as a PHP WebPage.
<br />
For more on these options, see [Debugging](../../024-tasks/152-debugging/000-index.md) .</td></tr>

<tr><td>Open Debug Dialog...</td>

<td></td>

<td>Launches the Debug dialog to create /edit debugging configurations.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Toggle Breakpoint</td>

<td>Ctrl+Shift+B</td>

<td>Adds / removes breakpoints from your script.
<br />
Breakpoints are used to stop the debugging process at certain key places throughout your code.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Toggle Line Breakpoint</td>

<td></td>

<td>Adds / removes line breakpoints from your script.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Toggle Method Breakpoint</td>

<td></td>

<td>Adds / removes method breakpoints from your script.
<br />
[Method breakpoints](PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.jdt.doc.user/tasks/task-set_method_breakpoints.htm) are used to add conditions to breakpoints.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Toggle Watchpoint</td>

<td></td>

<td>Adds / removes a field watchpoint for the current selected variable in the Expressions View.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Skip All Breakpoints</td>

<td></td>

<td>Allows you to temporarily remove all breakpoints from your script so that the debugging process will not stop at them.
<br />
Select this function again to return all breakpoints to the script.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Remove All Breakpoints</td>

<td></td>

<td>Removes all breakpoints from the current active file.</td></tr>

<tr><td>Launch the Web Services Explorer</td>

<td></td>

<td>Launches the Web Services Explorer. See ' [Launching the Web Services Explorer](PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.jst.ws.consumption.ui.doc.user/tasks/tstrtexp.html) ' in the Web Application Development User Guide for more information.</td></tr>

<tr><td>External Tools</td>

<td></td>

<td>Run As
<br />
If applicable, allows you to run the file using External tools.
<br />
Open External Tools Dialog
<br />
Opens the configuration dialog for running a file using external tools.
<br />
Organize Favorites
<br />
Opens a dialog allowing you to organize your external tools.
<br />
See the [External Tools](PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/concepts/concepts-exttools.htm)  topic in the Workbench User Guide for more information.</td></tr>

</table>

<!--links-start-->

#### Related Links:

 * [Menus](000-index.md)
 * [File](008-file/000-index.md)
 * [Edit](016-edit.md)
 * [Source](024-source.md)
 * [Refactor](032-refactor.md)
 * [Navigate](040-navigate.md)
 * [Search](048-search.md)
 * [Project](056-project.md)
 * [Window](080-window.md)
 * [Help](088-help.md)

<!--links-end-->
